Triggering AWS Lambda from Amazon SQS
Introduction
In this hands-on AWS lab, you will learn how to trigger a Lambda function using SQS. This Lambda function will process messages from the SQS queue and insert the message data as records into a DynamoDB table.

Solution
Log in to the AWS Management Console using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page. Make sure you're using the us-east-1 (N. Virginia) region.

Create the Lambda Function
In the search bar on top, enter lambda.
From the search results, select Lambda.
Click the Create function button.
On the Create function page, select Author from scratch.
Under Basic Information, set the following parameters for each field:
Function name: Enter SQSDynamoDB.
Runtime: Select Python 3.9 from the dropdown menu.
Architecture: Select x86_64.
Under Permissions, expand Change default execution role.
Select Use an existing role.
Under Existing role, select lambda-execution-role from the dropdown menu.
Click the Create function button.
Create the SQS Trigger
Click the + Add trigger button.
Under Trigger configuration, click the Select a source dropdown menu.
From the menu, select SQS.
Under SQS queue, click the search bar and select Messages.
Ensure that the checkbox next to Activate trigger is checked.
Click Add.
Copy the Source Code into the Lambda Function
Under the + Add trigger button, click the Code tab.
On the left side, double-click on lambda_function.py.
Delete the contents of the function.
Navigate to the link below to the source code for lambda_function.py:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/SQSLambdaTriggers/master/lambda_function.py. 6. Copy the code. 7. Return to the AWS console and paste the code into the lambda_function.py code box. 8. Click the Deploy button.

Log In to the EC2 Instance and Test the Script
In the search bar on top of the AWS console, enter sqs.

From the search results, select Simple Queue Service.

Click Messages.

Click the Monitoring tab to monitor our SQS messages.

In the search bar on top, enter ec2.

From the search results, select EC2 and open it in a new browser tab or window.

Under Resources, click Instances (running).

In the existing instance available, click the checkbox next to its name.

Click the Connect button at the top.

Click Connect at the bottom to open a shell and access the command line.

In the shell, become the cloud_user role:

su - cloud_user
View a list of files available to you:

ls
View the contents of the send_message.py file:

cat send_message.py
Start sending messages to our DynamoDB table from our Messages SQS queue with an interval of 0.1 seconds:

./send_message.py -q Messages -i 0.1
After a few seconds, hit Control + C to stop the command from continuing to run.

Confirm Messages Were Inserted into the DynamoDB Table
Return to the browser tab or window with the Messages queue in Amazon SQS open. You may have to wait a few minutes to see results showing up in the tables, but you should soon see a spike in the table Number of Messages Received.
In the search bar on top, enter dynamodb.
From the search results, select DynamoDB.
In the left-hand navigation menu, select Tables.
Select the Message table.
In the top-right corner of the page, click Explore table items and review the list of items that were inserted from our script, sent to SQS, triggered Lambda, and inserted into the DynamoDB database.
Conclusion
Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!
